welcome to almost here around the corner
of future technology podcasts with
richard jacobs future technologies ways
to transform our lives for better or
worse or the focus of this podcast
almost here means these technologies are
now here starting to be used or just
around the corner from bitcoin to
artificial intelligence 3d printing
blockchain virtual reality and more
hello this is richard jacobs with the
future tech podcast my guest is crap
Travis Christopherson author of tripping
over the truth the metabolic theory of
cancer so Travis thanks for coming
really glad you're here yeah nice to be
here thanks for - yeah tell me um I
found that people work in fields like
this unfortunately usually because
they've had some kind of personal
experience with what they write about I
hope that's not the case but what's your
background what got you into looking at
the cancer and metabolic therapy you
know for me for me it was just a genuine
curiosity of the subject and just a true
fascination with that there could be an
alternative explanation for what the
basic fundamental biology of cancer was
so it's kind of a collision of a school
graduate research project and running
into Tom Seyfried book cancer as a
metabolic disease for that project is
really what kicked it off for me I you
know my undergrad was in um pre-med and
so everything that you know I had
learned prior to that was was what was
in textbooks which was cancers a genetic
disease caused by key mutations
oncogenes and and then Tom's book which
is essentially a textbook you know laid
out this vast universe of data going
back to the 20s even before that really
of all this compiled evidence that show
cancer could be perhaps an should of
metabolic disease and this converged
right at the time 2012 with a Cancer
Genome Atlas Project where the
technology had caught up and could
really answer questions about what the
genome of the cancer cell looked like
and the wake of that project created
this this sort of state of confusion
that you know most people don't hear
about because it's embedded deep in
these vile
journals but people were trying to make
sense of what the data was what what the
cancer genome you know what the
mutations meant and so it was perfect
timing because that that data was just
coming out right walk right over the
Tom's book and that led to my book which
is kind of an examination of both sides
of the coin so what in your estimation
your experience what I know is a huge
question but what causes cancer you know
that the genetic theory I guess is you
know cells undergo mutations you know
either random or perhaps in response to
stress and they become cancer cells but
what have you seen is actually what
happens you know every day I learn
something new about this it kind of you
just sort of you know added to this kind
of repository of knowledge and you get
this kind of image of what you think
cancer is but yeah you're right we used
to think that it was just that clear-cut
that we would find if we could sequence
a genome and I say we I just mean you
know the scientists community in general
if they could sequence the entire genome
of cancer cells you'd find this defining
fingerprint of maybe you know how four
to ten mutations in oncogene zit was the
cause of that type of cancer and now we
know it's not remotely that simple
they're their cancers with zero
mutations we find their cancers with one
or two driving mutations so it's just
it's a more complex picture than we
thought and what you know what is the
ultimate cause in my mind if you ask Tom
Seyfried he'll tell you it's
mitochondrial damage period that's what
kicked it off but in my mind you know
that certainly could be a trigger but
what happens after that appears to be an
epigenetic response and when you look at
when I say epigenetic I just mean of the
22,000 gene genes we have in our genome
the EPI epigenetics is the turning up
and down to the volume control dials of
each one of those genes and so when you
look at cancer cells the pattern that's
revealed is they re expressing the sort
of cassette of embryonic genes and so
cancer looks like this sort of out of
context rebooting of the program of
embryogenesis and so you know it's it's
a program that's in every one of our
cells and it just sort of get
reboot is in this kind of out of context
format and you know interestingly we
find things every day like I just read
this the other day for example you can
take you can take rats which are social
animals and you can isolate them from
birth and put them into cage into cages
where they're isolated and then you have
a control group that's you know living
in a group and the ones that are
isolated have up to a tee time will
develop up to eighty times more mammary
Tour's so so you know what's what's a
answer that you get out of that is it
our lifestyle you know these factors
loneliness even toxins were exposed to
all these things sort of get distilled
into this you know really complex quick
equation about whether do we develop
cancer or not so it's a long answer so
cancer so cancer is epigenetics I don't
know if I'm saying this right but
epigenetics is how cells Express the
genes that compose them right so that an
epigenetic change means that I guess
certain genes stop being expressed and
other ones are expressed more or at all
exactly that percent okay yeah so select
for example a neuron would never express
a stomach acid gene right it gets shut
off in the neurotic it's turned on and
the lining of the cells align the
stomach and cancer a good example is as
you you're born with four versions of
this gene called hexokinase and
hexokinase and those are called isozymes
there's four versions in your genome
hexokinase catalyzes the first reaction
in glycolysis the first reaction of
glucose as it goes down the glycolytic
chain towards lactic acid or pyruvate
depending but it's the first step in
that process there's nine sort of
chemical steps in that process and when
when you're an embryo you express the
version called hexokinase two then when
you grow up is an adult you'll switch to
expressing primarily primarily
hexokinase one but the cancer cell will
revert back to hexokinase to a
hexokinase two is essentially the enzyme
that's responsible for what we call the
Warburg effect it's not some it doesn't
have a break on it the enzyme is not
subject to what
I'll product inhibition it just rips
through the glycolytic pathway and
shoves glucose down it so it's a single
conversion you know from one enzyme to
another that's within our genome it's
responsible for this hallmark feature of
cancer so that's that's one example what
do you mean when you say it changes how
glucose is processed well okay so well a
cancer cell if you talk to Tom Seyfried
I'm sure you heard a lot about this
cancer cells one of the hallmark
features is they exhibit what we call
the Warburg effect and and you can you
know debate why they're doing this but
but the Warburg effect essentially is
that cancer will primarily use glucose
as a fuel and it runs through glycolysis
and that creates energy and then it
kicks out lactic acid which is a waste
product and that the question is why why
would cancer cells be doing that they do
this in the presence of oxygen you know
most healthy cells in the presence of
oxygen will use what we call aerobic
metabolism so it will go through
glycolysis and then the glucose will
enter the mitochondria and make energy
via with oxygen but cancer cells sort of
bypass that second step and just kick
out lactic acid and you know the
question is why are they doing that and
that's been debated still being debated
today so yeah some of Seyfried said that
cancer cells use glucose but they also
use glutamine I don't know if you found
that to be true in honor of us primarily
just glucose as their fuel source no
yeah that's that's absolutely true
there's two fuels they prefer to use
glucose and glutamine and and they're
somewhere on the spectrum some cancers
like glucose more than glutamine and
vice-versa some cancer cells like you
know the inverse glutamine more than
glucose yeah those are the two primary
fuels okay so um in response to stresses
I guess diet environment toxins you know
loneliness etc people's bodies I guess
what is the mechanism that causes them
to have cancer cells or to create cancer
cells well so you know that that if we
could answer that we'd know the prime
the prime origin and mm-hmm
I just think it's it's a series of
extraordinary two complex events but
whatever kicks it off we you know we
know that those are variables we know
obviously cigarette smoke is a huge
variable so associative damaging event
something like loneliness you know for
example well you can measure the effect
in people they'll they produce more
cortisol which is a which is an
epigenetic acting sort of like hormone
it goes in attaches to DNA and changes
away genes are expressed and so over
time when yeah over time as you produce
too much cortisol it changes way your
immune system responds it has more of
the flam Ettore response you know less
targeted so that may may allow an
environment where cancer cells can you
know sort of escape the immune system
but you know to pin it down to a certain
series of events I think is almost
impossible it's just it's just this
myriad of complexity and then alright so
what about the the therapy side you said
it reddit you gave some hints you know
but cancer cells use glucose differently
for regular cells they also use
glutamine so what have you realized
through your research what kind of
therapies could target cancers you know
beyond normal radiation and chemotherapy
etc yeah that uh perhaps yeah I get you
know the low-hanging fruit to that sort
of this cancer therapy what we've
noticed metabolically is is it seems
like metabolic therapies are very good
adjuvant meaning they kind of set the
cancer cell up to die easier so if you
come in with something like radiation or
a cytotoxic chemotherapy they die
quicker and they die a more orderly less
inflammatory death and they do this
beautifully they sort of differentiate
between normal cells and and cancer
cells like for example the ketogenic
diet the ketogenic diet will restrict
glucose and when you're when you do that
to healthy cells they'll start your
labor will start producing ketone bodies
and healthy cells will smell burning
ketone bodies and when they do that they
up regulate what we call glutathione so
it's just intercellular antioxidant and
conversely cancer cells you know
obviously they love glucose and they
can't respond to as well to ketones so
they have less glutathione so you've set
up the sort of therapeutical
differential between a healthy cell in
the normal cell where the healthy cells
are have more
more intercellular antioxidants and the
cancer cells have less energy and less
antioxidants and so then when you come
in with something like radiation for
example and this is very measurable we
come in with the chemotherapy or
radiation the healthy healthy cells are
protected and there's fewer side-effects
so if somebody comes in to chemotherapy
in a fasted state you can measure you
know the number of mouths or is the
number of times that they vomit or
things like that and they're they're
incredibly reduced the number time it
vomited there's a study done I think 15
patients was reduced from like six a day
to zero so every side effect is
diminished and then you get this this
more robust response the cancer cells
are dying easier and quicker and more in
mass because they can't defend
themselves so you get you know this
beautiful therapeutic differential and
that's just done by diet or fasting but
we're learning you know that as far as
therapies go there's a whole range of
things that we can use that act
metabolically we're learning about
repurposed drugs you know old drugs like
metformin that are originally prescribed
for type 2 diabetes have a very robust
anti-cancer effect as an adjuvant
meaning they set the cells up again and
to die easier oh doggedness ketones
there's a whole list of things yeah
there's a great yeah I'd like to ask you
about all these in brief so I'm fasting
just a quick question about the protocol
what would be ideal let's say I'm going
to have chemo question fast beforehand
should i fast after the chemo for a
certain period of time like you know
again I know it's different for
everybody and it varies it'll not but
what's a general idea of what what would
be helpful to chemo treatment to make it
a lot more effective for a radiation
treatment yeah we don't we don't have a
great answer to that the study that was
done you know the guy that did it is
Valter Longo at UCLA he had a hard time
convincing oncologist to participate in
the study they didn't want to do it but
he finally convinced a number of them to
do it and I think the patient's you know
it they fast depending on how their
ability to fast some patients are very
you know they're sick and they can't do
a prolonged fast so that study that
varied
24 hours to 72 hours you know he tried
to get him out to do a fast for 72 hours
before but some of the patients could
only do 24 to 48 so we don't you know we
don't have like a like a dose-response
curve to wit work what would work best I
think the answer is just how how well
you can tolerate it you say to health if
you're feeling good you know you could
go to 72 hours beforehand but yeah what
about after just say I did 24 and then I
haven't I wait another 24 to either eat
right after and you know it had the
effect would you get yeah no I I don't
know the answer to that I think you know
afterwards you're trying to set that
that sort of differential I talked about
up before you get the chemotherapy or
the radiation
so I guess yet answer you know we don't
know what what the effect would be
afterwards yeah again it sounds like
that study needs to be done that would
be very helpful and shed a lot of light
right yeah yeah the problem with those
kind of studies is money the biggest
problem is those therapies are free so
no one really there's very little
funding to do them many literally are
cos you know eating same for exam is
ketones so would it be helpful for
someone to maybe fast and take executive
ketones before a therapy like that you
know the preclinical data says yes
there's a good study done by Dominic
D'Agostino and Tom Seyfried where they I
think it was a glioma model with mice
where they tested my sonic ketogenic
diet and again when I say when you say
ketogenic diet essentially it's just the
nutritional maintenance of the fasting
state so you expect to see sort of a
similar result and these mice were in on
a ketogenic diet they measure their
overall survival
they had measured it then the ketogenic
diet combined with hyperbaric oxygen and
then the third arm of the study was a
ketogenic diet combined with hyperbaric
oxygen combined with exogenous ketones
and the key to jannat the mouse the mice
and the ketogenic diet lived a little
longer than the control group the mice
with the Kinect died with H BOTS lived a
little longer even more little longer
than the ketogenic diet and then the
third arm when they add in the exogenous
ketones those mice
the longest so that we have that
evidence we have the evidence that you
know when you just do a simple petri
dish experiments and you add ketones in
you keep glucose levels the same and you
add ketones in cancer cells seem to
sputter and have trouble even even just
adding those in and there's other
reasons for that we think that they
probably act as a drug and themselves
beyond just being a fuel replacement
they have the sort of epigenetic acting
quality to them that may have an
anti-cancer effect by itself okay and
then you talked about bringing back old
drugs like metformin metformin what it
suppresses glucose or what does it do
and why does it affect people with
cancer you think well metformin is a
weird drug so it's it's originally it's
a natural product isolated from the
French lilac plants been around since
the 50s
remarkable drug for type 2 diabetes and
the interesting thing about drugs like
that there's so when they get so well
prescribed I think it's the second most
widely prescribed drug in the world
right now is you get this huge
experimental block of data you have
people on this drug you know tens of
thousands hundreds of thousands people
on this drug for decades and so you can
follow them it's you know an
epidemiological dream scenario and when
you follow people on metformin that this
weird scenario starts to emerge where
people with type 2 diabetes
become it looks like even more protected
from cancer than the general population
so then you circle back and ask why is
this drug doing this it's conferring
some sort of you know preventive effect
for cancer than even people than people
healthy people not not on metformin and
it just does a lot of strange thing yet
lowers blood glucose that's one thing it
does that very well but it also messes
with what we call the electron transport
chain it inhibits one of the protein
complexes which sounds terrible but the
side effect of that is is for some
reason some sort of protective quality
in the cell and when you when you look
at cancer what you realize we've
underappreciated the fact that they're
really vulnerable to oxidative stress
and that's why like we talked about the
ketogenic diet reducing their amount of
antioxidants that appears to be one of
the
ways to kill cancer cells is either give
them over loads of oxidative stress and
that just means free radicals we can do
that through hyperbaric oxygen it's a
very gentle way to do it or we can
reduce their ability to make
antioxidants but metformin seems to mess
with the electron transport chain in a
way that causes them to have just an
intolerable amount of free radicals and
they just die you know die sooner or die
easier so that's one of the mechanisms
of action and again in healthy cells it
appears to be what we call a hermetic
response and that's when you stress
cells just the right way
you know this is kind of why fasting
works when you provide a biological
stressor in the right way you get a sort
of healthy response so but yeah that's
that's know no one really knows how
metformin works is that still being
debated so um have you seen people that
you know have had cancer that have tried
you know the whole gamut they're taking
metformin they're doing hyperbaric
oxygen they're taking these edges of
ketones they're fasting you know they're
doing everything there's really no
creatures out there people that have
done that what's happened yeah yeah
we're starting to see more and more
people do that you know these are all
kind of Anna one stuff but um yeah we we
I'm involved with an organization called
care oncology and they they got started
in the UK and they prescribed this
combination of repurposed drugs as an
adjuvant therapy while they're running a
clinical trial and we've helped bring
this over to the US and so we see
patients you know that are that are
doing all sorts of combinations of
therapies ketogenic diets you know the
care oncology protocol things like that
and you know statistical data is know
obviously what you have to rely on but
we we are seeing patients that are you
know defying odds with very very serious
terminal it you know terminal cancers
that are far out so it's too early to
say yeah you're on the exact right track
if we're ever going to beat this disease
it's going to be through a you know a
combination many different therapies
different dosage different timing but
it's going to be through that sort of
approach okay so with what right now are
you you know today what do you
working on what are you researching and
what do you hope the results will be in
the near future well we're doing you
know what we're doing with care oncology
is it's just an interesting model
because it's a it's essentially using
these repurposed drugs there's a huge
repository of data that gives you the
confidence to treat patients off-label
and so that's what they did in the UK
was come up with a combination you know
that that synergistically these drugs
work together and the data clearly shows
that that in combination they're much
more powerful than by themselves and so
you have the evidence to three patients
these drugs you know one of them's met
form and they've been around forever we
know their everything about them Pharma
kinetics dynamics everything their
safety profiles so you can do this very
safely and then you just track outcomes
over time so you can measure the effect
as an adjunctive therapy over time so
it's a model where you know you're not
saying okay let's test this in the
clinical trial setting it's let's let's
there's enough evidence to treat but
then let's also circle back and measure
these outcomes so that's what I'm
involved with here in the US and it's
just it's a very interesting model and
you know we we hope to expand off that
we'll get the data for the for these for
drugs and then we'll be able to you know
do a version 2.0 the next you know
combination that we think is going to
have the best effect are there
particular cancers that you want to go
after versus others or particular
circumstances well we want to go after
them all and you know the data clearly
shows that the metformin when you look
at people almost every cancer that
they've ever looked at with metformin
it's it's a had an effect and that not
saying every study shown effect but when
they then when they do show in effect
it's a variety of cancers and then you
ask why and it's because it circles back
to this you're targeting this ubiquitous
sort of defect in the cancer so this
metabolic change that is across them
okay yeah from what I've seen usually
the people that work with cancer they
have a yeah I know I'm not gonna call
their favourites but ones that they
consider to be more serious so they want
to target those particular cancers or
there's certain cancers that have
unusual characteristics that they want
to target you know you mentioned at the
very beginning in the interview which I
notice that some cancers genetically
they look the exact same as as regular
cells and some of them do have altered
gene pediatric amber cancers for example
then the f0 patient's you know but so we
don't have to that's that's a good thing
about these metabolic therapies is we
don't have to worry about the mutational
profile for the most part where you know
is if you're doing a targeted drug you
that limits you that to the type of
cancer and then the type of mutations
that are in that cancer in most cases um
are there any particular cancers you've
seen that are the most susceptible to
the type of therapy as we've been
talking about you know the easiest when
the lowest hanging fruit to knockout
yeah you know the tougher ones the brain
well the glioblastoma is one of the
worst types cancer there is it's a brain
cancer that john mccain just that just
took john mccain it's it seems to be on
the rise it's the most one of the most
aggressive cancers there is that one's
brain cancers in general seem to be very
susceptible to these types of therapies
because the brain the neurons are sort
of a hybrid where they like to burn
glucose if glucose is available but they
can easily switch to taquitos so there's
there you know they there as far as
metabolic therapies go they seem to be
very responsive to that and and that was
our first date egg their UK that was
their first data with care on ecology
was in glioblastoma and it was a hundred
patient cohort and when you add those
four drugs to standard of care you see
about a doubling in overall survival
hello and we'll see you know as time
goes on you know ketogenic diets how
what their what their role is an
adjuvant will be with glioblastoma is
but it'll be interesting to see when you
add that in and a few other things what
that survival curve looks like so you
know you said you learn stuff every day
which is really great what what
surprises you about the bike answered
about the therapies like maybe it's a
particular cancer where you just can't
believe it acts that way you know again
what are some things that you know the
normal public or maybe probably most
doctors don't even know that you seem
that are just very unusual and that's a
tough question
interesting to you or exciting because
it shows a way to fight
so that you know maybe wasn't seen
before anything there really piques your
interest in what you're doing yeah yeah
you know it's funny because it these
things you know are seem so simple and
they're free but they have such a
difficult time getting up and running
I guess the ketogenic diet you know it's
being studied now there's a study
there's a there's probably a dozen
clinical trials across the u.s. but
what's kind of surprising to me is that
how difficult it's been the oncologists
will sort of draw a line and that course
is you know this doesn't mean every
oncologist but and I think this comes
from just the nature of their job but
they draw a line between standard care
and then everything else and what the
surprising thing to me is when there's
so much literature so much data that
there's just that there has to be that
delineation between standard of care and
nothing else
doctors you know especially with
patients like glioblastoma they just
need to take more chances the patient's
want it you know they can do the math
and the terminal illness they can major
risk and reward where oncologists will
say no I don't there's no reason to try
that you can you can ask an oncologist
about aspirin say no no there's a risk
of bleeding well I'm you know my my
median overall survival is 11 or 14
months I'm not worried about a 2% chance
of a minor bleed so that's what
surprises me is this is kind of and I
think you know in defense of oncologists
their job is brutally difficult and
patients come to them with variety
questions all the time this is probably
no excuse but they just get I think they
just get burned out and they draw that
line between standard care and then you
know not wanting to try other things in
certain cases but I guess that's what
surprises me the most is that with
unwillingness to take risk and but do it
in a responsible way we can always
measure outcomes you know we have
electronic medical records every patient
can be a data point so when we do take
risks and try new things that data can
be collected we just you know we could
do so much better in oncology so um
perhaps perhaps doctors are worried
about not providing the standard of care
because they would get in trouble right
they didn't yeah I mean yeah and then
the guns
I had rain absolutely yep that's the
other part as illegal
legal issues I mean they do have to do
standard of care and you know you're not
you're not even in most cases asking
them to forego Sandra care what you're
just asking is additional things on top
of standard of care that might help it
might make a work better and you know
those fall under the label or under what
we call off-label use and you know you
look around and you'll see academic
institutions are more willing to do
off-label stuff especially in very dire
cases then of course like a community
hospital where they're just not going to
try anything else but you know it's it
and even going off label carries risk
because if something goes wrong they can
be held responsible you know but I think
that's extremely rare I think you know
patients that's what they want if they
have a very you know a very dire
prognosis and it's very rare for them
doctors to get in trouble for doing that
well you know yeah we can't even call
this advice but you know people that are
listening there may be some
unfortunately that they're dealing with
cancer maybe they have a dire diagnosis
I don't know I know you can't advise
them but what can you say what what
could they do what should they do to at
least get informed
you know what resources can you talk
about or you know they have a doctor and
they want to try certain things you know
what's your I guess what's your advice
for them without advising them yeah you
know I get I just do not advise them I
not advise them to get as much
information as you possibly can that's
the first step and you know and then the
hard part is well what what information
is good and what isn't but I would ask a
sturdier GP ask you know it doesn't just
have to be your oncologist you can take
it to other other MDS or if you have
doctor friends or people that are maybe
more versed you know in health care
because there's a lot of there's a lot
of simple things out there like like we
said there's good evidence of fasting
before the chemo is going to help and
that's safe and easy you know now I
don't think anybody's going to you're
not really going out in the limb there
to do that a ketogenic diet that's just
you know different in macro
macronutrient ratios so just those
simple things that are safe those are
right there in front of you there's
there's there's not clinical trial
evidence 2.2 there is a clinical trial
to show that ketogenic diet is safe you
know a phase one trial but there's a lot
of good theory and preclinical work to
say you know suggests that it can help
again repurpose drugs there's a mountain
of data about certain drugs and it
doesn't you know it's not just the care
oncology drugs there's about 80 or so
you know there's about 6,000 drugs out
there that can be prescribed in the in
the whole pharmacopoeia and you whittle
that down to about 80 of those have good
anti-cancer activity and we know you
know again because they're old drugs we
know their safety profile we know when
there's adverse events or they they're
not contradict with certain chemo
therapies you know so that there's that
out there and there's there's
organizations that are looking at those
all the time and there's there's groups
you know patient advocacy groups that
are comparing notes on those all the
time so those are things you can take to
your doctor and ask you know if they can
potentially help so those are you know
those are very safe things as are right
there in front of everybody and they can
they can hit the literature and do on
their own is there such a thing called a
metabolic therapy doctor no no not yet
but there will be someday I'm sure of it
yeah there's you know there's I guess
there's doctors that we are more
interested in it I know some oncologist
that are just interested in that
lifestyle they've adopted the ketogenic
diet for different reasons and that kind
of got them interested in that and the
metabolism and then it's circled back to
you know their oncology careers and they
they discovered this whole new realm of
metabolic oncology and they advise their
you know patients on ketogenic diets and
things like that so I think it's just
you know Majeure merging those two
interests and disciplines over time that
will be it that will be a subcategory
eventually hmm yeah it's one of the
problems I you know I realized is you
know if you have cancer obviously you're
very afraid and you know that's preys
upon your mind constantly and you know
the doctor tells you once
and then if you look and you try to
research other stuff you just don't know
if it'll be effective or not and you're
faced with like a serious dilemma
because your life's at stake so it makes
it really hard to think clearly to say
well can I try this and will it affect
that you know should I keep going to my
normal doctor and doing my normal
standard of care stuff and try this
other stuff or not you know I don't want
to die what should I do
it was like the really really tricky
thing makes it very difficult for people
to know what to do extraordinarily
tricky and I think you're right when you
have a diagnosis like that you look at
the person in front of you and you want
them to you know you hope that they're
going to have all the answers you don't
want it to be that hard unfortunately
they're just a human being and what
happened with medicine is you know
medicine used to be easy
there was a handful of therapies that
worked back in the 1800s and the doctor
was a doctor we've nurtured this culture
of autonomy of self-sufficiency
we put doctors on the pet you know the
sort of omniscient pedestal and and but
but the problem is as medicine has just
outstripped the capacity of the human
mind to do it effectively there is too
much to know and in a Mayo Clinic study
a recent Mayo Clinic studies show that
eighty eight percent of the time if you
get a second opinion it'll change the
treatment out pathway so even within a
one diagnosis you will get you know
conflicting opinions the variation in
healthcare in our hodgepodge medical
system is crazy you will get you know
Davenport Iowa you'll get a stent put in
or if you go to Stanford you won't so
it's just you have to sort of you know
right away just acknowledge how complex
this is and that one person is probably
not going to have all the answers that
doesn't mean you don't listen to them
you know the oncologist there there's
very good data for standard of care but
you just there's nothing wrong with
seeking out second opinions and other
advice from other again other
professionals okay so just to conclude
what what if some resources people can
read or find out or look at you know to
help inform them better about the whole
about cancer in general or about their
condition if they have one oh you know
mmm
I will just you know if you're really
interested in I love Tom Safe Routes but
cancers and metabolic disease it's it's
really heavy
textbook wise dietary stuff I love the
book by Miriam Kumari
Kido for cancer that's a wonderful book
you know is is that it's really hard to
give one summary but there's there's a
lot of stuff cropping up right now as
far as metabolic stuff for cancer so I
think you know that if you just if you
get savvy with PubMed that can lead you
down rabbit holes and you'll find a ton
information on on your fight you'll
start to find some certain researchers
that are really doing this stuff and to
kind of you know read their their
studies but yeah I wish I had a better
answer for you how about this guy Travis
Kristofferson they were tripping over
the truth I didn't want to plug my own
book but yeah that's a good place to
start to those your habits thanks for
coming I really appreciate your time and
your insights and I don't know if you
want to give away for listeners too to
get in touch if they have questions or
just your book is good yeah yeah book is
good that's but yeah I would just steer
them to the book yeah okay well very
good thanks for coming on the podcast
and I appreciate it you better - thank
you take care you have been listening to
almost here around the corner of each
technology podcast and Richard Jacobs
subscribe to this podcast both to review
to discover more future technologies
that are poised to transform our lives
for better or worse such as Bitcoin
artificial intelligence 3d printing
blockchain
virtual reality or